{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular_wdth_opsz110000_GRAD_wght2580000;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green79\blue181;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c90196;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c3922\c40000\c76078;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Every European outsourcing guide in 2025 names the same three countries.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 They're all missing the strongest region on the map.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 I've read every outsourcing report published this year. Tech StaQ. Devico. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://index.dev/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \cf4 Index.dev}}. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 They all define the "European Execution Corridor" as Poland, Spain, and Portugal.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Good countries. Real talent.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 But nobody mentions the Balkans. Not one list.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 And that's a problem, because the data says the Balkans should be on every shortlist.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Let me show you what these reports are leaving out.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Croatia just ranked #2 globally in the 2025 EF English Proficiency Index. Score of 617. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 That's higher than Germany. Higher than Poland at #15. Higher than Portugal at #6. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 North Macedonia scored #17. Bosnia came in at #21.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 These aren't scrappy emerging markets trying to learn English. \cb1 \
\cb3 These are countries where professionals operate at native-adjacent levels.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Now look at the rates.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Senior developers in Poland bill at USD 65-90/hour. \cb1 \
\cb3 Portugal runs $85-90.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 In the Balkans, comparable senior talent runs $45-80 depending on the country and specialization. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 North Macedonia and Albania even lower, with seniors at $30-50/hour for mid-level and up to $80 for deep specialists.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 That's not "cheap labor." \cb1 \
\cb3 That's the same quality band at 30-50% less.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 And quality is the part most people miss.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 This isn't an India or Philippines play.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The Philippines runs 38-42% annual attrition in BPO. First-year agents? 65-70% turnover.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Eastern European markets consistently run lower attrition, higher first-contact resolution, and fewer escalations that eat up your management's time.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The Balkans sit in CET. \cb1 \
\cb3 That's a 3-4 hour morning overlap with the US East Coast.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Your team is working while you're having coffee.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Try that with a team 10-13 hours ahead in Manila or Bangalore.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 North Macedonia has 150 foreign IT firms already operating there and produces 1,000 software graduates per year from 9 universities. \cb1 \
\cb3 The country's ICT sector is growing double digits annually.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 But the crown jewel is Kosovo.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Youngest population in Europe. Median age of 32. \cb1 \
\cb3 A 10% flat corporate tax, lowest in the region, lower than almost every EU country. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 The Euro as currency, no exchange rate risk.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 ICT exports hit \'80347 million in 2024, up 21% year over year, a fivefold increase in four years.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 We run teams out of Kosovo. \cb1 \
\cb3 English and German spoken natively. \cb1 \
\cb3 Young, hungry professionals who don't job-hop every six months because the market is growing and they want to build careers, not collect titles.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Every outsourcing guide in 2026 will include the Balkans.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The companies that figure this out now are the ones who won't be competing with everyone else for talent in Warsaw and Lisbon next year.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The data is there. The blind spot is real.}