{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c90196;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hot take: Kosovo is safer than France, Belgium, Sweden, and the UK.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 That's not my opinion. That's Numbeo's 2025 crime index.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 I live here. The most dangerous thing about Pristina is that nobody lets you leave a dinner without three courses, two desserts, and enough espresso to power a small city.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The safety perception is just outdated.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A war ended here 27 years ago. That's the entire basis for it. Most people here were kids. Some weren't even born.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 But that one word still triggers something in people's brains. Something from a news segment they half-watched in high school.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Same US travel advisory as Germany. Pristina scores almost the same as Vienna on safety.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Nobody knows this because nobody checks.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 And that's the part I think about as a business owner.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Every wrong assumption about this country is a competitive advantage for the people who bother to visit.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Youngest population in Europe. German and English spoken natively. 10 percent corporate tax. Full timezone overlap with the EU. And a workforce with a hunger you can't train into someone.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Kosovo isn't the country people think it is. Hasn't been for a long time.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 That perception gap is expensive. Just not for the people who are already here.}