{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c90196;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
17% debt-to-GDP. Youngest population in Europe. That's not Germany. That's Kosovo.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Germany has 163 occupations with worker shortages right now. EU migration to Germany dropped 67% last year. A government study found a third of EU workers already living in Germany are thinking about leaving.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Italy is the oldest country in the EU. Median age: 49. Almost 25% of the population is over 65. Fertility rate: 1.1%. By 2050 they'll have 1.5 workers for every retiree. In 2000 it was 4.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The EU's working-age population is projected to shrink by 25 million people by 2070. Eurostat's number, not mine.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 This is the economic backdrop in the countries people consider safe.\cb1 \
\cb3 Now here's Kosovo.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Median age: 32. Seventy percent of the population is under 35. Government debt: 16.9% of GDP. GDP grew 4.4% in 2024. Corporate tax is a flat 10%. The currency is the euro.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 542,000 Kosovars grew up in Germany. Another 250,000 plus in Switzerland. They speak German at home. Walk through Pristina and you'll hear it at every other table.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 I run a company out of Pristina. The reaction I get from people who've never visited is always some version of "isn't that risky?"\cb1 \
\
\cb3 I understand why. The name triggers something from an old news segment. But the data tells a different story.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 France's debt is 113% of GDP. Italy's is 137%. The UK is 94%. The US crossed 123%.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Kosovo is at 17%. Fitch gave it a BB- credit rating last year with a stable outlook. First sovereign rating in the country's history.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Europe's biggest problem right now isn't capital or innovation. It's that the workforce is disappearing. The median age is 44.9 and climbing. The dependency ratios keep getting worse. Germany can't even keep the foreign workers it already has.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 And two hours by plane from Berlin, there's a country full of German-speaking 30-year-olds where the government takes 10% and owes 17%.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 I'm not saying Kosovo is the fix for Europe's demographic problem. That's above my pay grade. But the gap between what people assume about this country and what the numbers say is one of the widest I've seen in business. And it's closing faster than most people realize.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The companies figuring this out in 2026 have a window. I don't think it stays this wide for long.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Sources:\
Debt-to-GDP ratios: Eurostat / Trading Economics, 2024 Kosovo BB- credit rating: Fitch Ratings, April 2024 Germany worker shortages: Bundesagentur fur Arbeit, 2025 EU workforce projections: Eurostat Demography 2025 Kosovo GDP growth 4.4%: IMF, May 2025 Italy demographics: Eurostat, January 2025}