{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c90196;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Kosovo ranks 17th in the world for fixed broadband speed.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Ahead of France. Ahead of the UK. Ahead of Italy. Ahead of Spain.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 That's not from Kosovo's government. That's Speedtest's Global Index. Anyone can check it in 30 seconds.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 252 Mbps average. Over 70% of the country covered by 5G. Internet penetration above 96%.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 And somehow the first question I get from every potential client is still: "But is the internet reliable there?"\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Every time. Without fail. Before talent. Before cost. Before anything else.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 I've taken video calls with clients in New York, London, and Munich from my apartment in Pristina without a single dropped frame. I had worse connectivity in three different US cities I've lived in.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 When you think about it, the reason is straightforward. Kosovo rebuilt its telecom infrastructure from scratch after the war. There were no copper lines from the '80s to work around. No patchwork systems from three different decades stitched together. The country went straight to fiber and 5G because there was nothing to retrofit.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 A lot of Western Europe is still running on networks that were laid before most people had email.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The broadband data is public. The safety data is public. The cost data is public. The talent pipeline data is public. All of it one Google search away.\cb1 \
\cb3 But the perception hasn't changed in 25 years.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 I run client-facing teams from here. The calls are crisp. The connections are stable. I'm not asking anyone to take my word for it. I'm asking them to look up one ranking.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The distance between what people assume about Kosovo and what's actually true gets wider every year. And for the companies that bother to check, that distance is the entire opportunity.\cb1 \
}